
Intro to Spring Core and Spring Boot

This is one of the most popular framework used for developing java

Mainly Enterprise-Level Java Applications

Coupling

Loose Coupling

Tight Coupling

Version

Maven Cycle

First Session: Concept of Coupling, Why and how to create loosely coupled
applications, Creating loosely coupled applications without framework can cause
lot of boilerplates in the code.

This is where spring make framework easier.

Design Principle called Inversion of Control(IoC)

Dependency Injection which this principle is implemented.

Maven - how to create maven project
      - Add Dependency
      - bean creation and dependency injection in spring

Spring Framework - Coupling Understand


Coupling: Like Relationship

Relationship between different classes

Two Types - Loose Coupling
            - Easy to debug / test
            - Easy to replace
          - Tight Coupling
            - Difficult to debug / test
            - Difficult to replace


Tight Coupling

Muliple Classes are highly dependant, This is called Tightly coupled

For ex. An object of one class has to be an object of another class to function

Referring another class directly inside dependant class

Ex.

Class Car { Engine engine}

Class Engine{}


dependant class

public class MainApp() {

  public static void main(String[] args){
    GreetingService greetingservice = new GreetingService();
    greetingservice.greet("Sudar");
  }
}

dependency class

public class GreetingService(){

  public void greet(String name){
    System.out.println("Hello "+name);
  }

}


Loose Coupling

1. Interfaces - Deal at Abstraction
2. Factory Free Pattern

Interface:

Ex.

public interace GreetingService() {
  public void greet(String name);
}

public class EnglishService() implements GreetingService(){
  public void greet(String name){
    System.out.println("Hello "+name);
  }
}

public class FrenchService() implements GreetingService(){
  public void greet(String name){
    System.out.println("Bonjour "+name);
  }
}


Factory Pattern

Ex.

public class GreetingServiceFactory(){
  public GreetingService getGreetingService(String Language){
    if(language.equals("english")){
      return new EnglishService();
    } else if(language.equals("french")){
      return new FrenchService();
    } else {
      throw new Runtime Exception("NO GREETING"+Language);
    }
  }
}

Concrete Coupling

Factory Design Pattern

1. MainApp
2. Interface Class
3. Supporting Class for Interface with returning the values
4. Factory Class for defining the logics

https://www.brainspire.com/blog/what-is-loose-coupling-why-does-it-matter-for-your-new-project


Inversion of Control

Famous / Core Framework

Normal Flow: The Coder is in control to execute and provide the final outcome

Inverted Flow: The Coder fills in the Template using Framework on what should be
the final product, Here the Framework is in Control

Flow execution using IoC

Developer creates Service
IoC Framework creates the instance of service in main class
Where then Developer invokes the respective service

IoC frameworks are based on the principles of inversion of control.
So, when using a framework, the framework will take care of object creation.
You would only need to provide a hint to the framework that a particular class’s
 object needs to be created, and the framework will take care of the rest.

IoC is a principle, which states that the dependent classes should not create
objects of the dependency classes. Dependency objects would be created by
either the IoC container or the framework and be provided to the dependent object.


Dependency Injection

It is Desgin Pattern using Spring

Manages objects Life Cycle maintains

DI helps to inject dependencies into an object
IoC is a generic programming principle, DI is an implementation of IoC
IoC States the dependant classes shouldn't create objects, whereas IoC container
or Framework should provide the objects

DI is one of the implementation or subtype of IoC and instructs how to provide
dependency objects to dependent objects
DI states the dependencies would be injected via either getter or setter or
constructor

https://medium.com/@amitkma/understanding-inversion-of-control-ioc-principle-163b1dc97454

https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/a-quick-intro-to-dependency-injection-what-it-is-and-when-to-use-it-7578c84fa88f/

Dependency injection is a design pattern, whereas Inversion of Control is a design principle.
Dependency injection ensures that all the required dependencies of a dependent class are met.
Dependency injection is the implementation of the IoC.


Intro to Spring: Spring Framework and How it can simplify the code

Spring Beans and Spring Containers

BOILERPLATE CODES

Spring framework helps providing this boilerplate

Set of rules, Set of users follow the same

Framework or Software Framework Provides you well tested generic boilerplate codes
by following the principle and best practices

Save time and insert correct components, Fast and Easy Approach

All Framework, Including Spring, Rely on the Concept of IoC

Spring Container:
1. IoC instantiates the object of dependancy classes used by dependant classes
2. IoC framework behaves like containers for objects, So IoC Framework is also
called as IoC Containers
3. IoC Container of Spring Framework, is also called as Spring Containers
4. The Objects inside Spring Containers also called as Spring Beans or Beans


Spring Container is a Collection of Objects which is called Beans

Spring provides two types of Containers
1. Spring BeanFactory Container - Lazy initialization need not to be loaded beginning
Ex. Mobile apps
2. Spring ApplicationContext Container - Full Pledged Create objects in the beginning
and kept ready, Ex. High Performance Servers



Bean Factory

It is similar to factory class and collection of methods to get beans from Spring
container
It is lightweight, when required this will get instantiates the beans instead at
the beginning

ApplicationContext

Interface extends BeanFactory
heavyweight as it loads all the beans at the startup of the applications
provides extra enterprise specific functionality on top of the bean factory
container
as it contain all the functionality of BeanFactory and has additional
functionality, this is recommended over BeanFactory


Features of Spring Framework

1. it is opensource
2. lightweight
3. modular - loose coupling
4. integration with other framework
5. Aspect-Oriented Programming (AOP): separate cross cutting concerns(logging,
security, exception handling, etc) from business logic
6. Dependency Injection: helps developing Loosely coupled applications and in turn
facilitates easier unit testing
7. IoC Containers: Creates and Manages the life Cycle of the Spring Beans
8. Transaction Management: Used to maintain transaction and is mostly used to
maintain database transactions

Aspect-oriented programming (AOP) is an approach to programming that
allows global properties of a program to determine how it is compiled
into an executable program.

Spring Architecture


Data Access / Integration       Web - Websocket, Servelet,Web, Portlet
JDBC,ORM
OXM,JMS
Transaction
AOP, Aspects, Instrumentation, Messaging
Core Containers: Contains Beans, Core, Context, SpEL
Test

Addl.Reading - https://spring.io/why-spring

Statement: In Spring-based applications, objects that are created and
managed by Spring are present in a Spring Container.

Which of the following is a feature of the Spring Framework?
Note: More than one option may be correct.

IoC Container
Dependency injection
lightweight

Which of the following options is correct?

Note: More than one option may be correct.


When using ApplicationContext containers,
objects are created at the start of the application.
Spring provides both ApplicationContext and BeanFactory containers
BeanFactory containers are used for lightweight servers


The Spring Framework follows the Inversion of Control design principle. True
